# Software-Security

# Briefly summarize your client, Artemis Financial, and their software requirements. Who was the client? What issue did they want you to address?
Artemis Financial was our client who wanted to "modernize their operations" and hired us, Global Rain, to update their systems while also using the most current and effective software security tools and techniques. Throughout the project I discussed the areas of security that would need to be addressed based on their needs as well as cybersecurity compliances that we would incoroporate. I also performed a static test which involved running a dependency check on Artemis's software application to view all security vulnerabilities that may be present. I then interpreted those results and created a mitigation plan on how we could fix those vulnerabilities.

# What did you do very well when you found your client’s software security vulnerabilities? Why is it important to code securely? What value does software security add to a company’s overall wellbeing?
When I found my client's software security vulnerabilities, I think I did a good job of describing each and every vulnerability present in the software application, as well as what type of attacks we could face if we were not to resolve them. We can resolve a lot of vulnerabilities in Artemis Financial's software application if we incorporate secure coding practices; leaving a program with errors in the code can make it easy for attackers and malicious users to hack their way into the system. A lot of value is added to a company's overall wellbeing when secure coding is practiced, it gives users the piece of mind knowing that their important and private information is being securely kept.

# What part of the vulnerability assessment was challenging or helpful to you?
The challenging part for me was deciphering what applied to the software application and what was actually a false positive. However, I soon came to understand to check what versions were being displayed as a vulnerabily, then compared that to the versions actually used in the application. So, for example, if there was a vulnerability that stated Bouncey Castle Crypto package versions 1.5 to 1.7 are vulnerable to oracle attacks and the version the application used was 1.4, I would know that that is a false positive. 

# How did you increase layers of security? In the future, what would you use to assess vulnerabilities and decide which mitigation techniques to use?
I added layers of security through static testing, as mentioned above, and also, in a separate project, by inclding a cryptographic hash function that would allow us to hide data by tranforming it into a smaller and unredable form that is not possible to be uncovered from an attacker. I also generated an SSL certificate which confirms Artemis Financial's identity. I refactored code to make sure it was secure, and lastly I performed another static test to make sure no new vulnerabilities were added. In the future, I will continue to use the maven dependency check tool to assess all vulnerabilities. 

# How did you make certain the code and software application were functional and secure? After refactoring the code, how did you check to see whether you introduced new vulnerabilities?
I made certain that the code and software application were functional and secure by using the best coding practices for Java, and by including the Secure Hash Algorithm in the code as well. Before running the static testing after my code was complete, I ran an initial one beforehand, and from there I was able to determine if any new vulnerabiliies were intorduced. 

# What resources, tools, or coding practices did you use that might be helpful in future assignments or tasks?
All of the resources, tools, and coding practices I have learned throughout this project will be helpful for me in future assignments and tasks. The one that is likely the most helpful out of everything is learning how to create an SSL certificate. It was quite the challenge for me to figure this out at first, but now, I can easily create one with little to no difficulty. It is also necessary to create a trusted site through https, and tells users that the site they are on can be trusted. An untrusted site is likely one that many or all users would not want to interact with. 

# Employers sometimes ask for examples of work that you have successfully completed to show your skills, knowledge, and experience. What might you show future employers from this assignment?
I would like to show future employers how I was able to run the dependency check and explain all of the vulnerablities as well as the ways in which they can be resolved for the Artemis Financial project. I'd also like for them to understand my reasonings for the areas of security I thought were important to incorporate and focus on for a financial company like Artemis. Lastly, I would want them to see how I performed a manual review of the code base and where specifically I found issues, such as in specific class files. 
